Store Data
----------

[Using AMEE to store data](ch05.php#store-data)

[More about Profiles](ch05.php#about-profiles)

[Naming Profile Items](ch05.php#naming-items)

[Building Time Series](ch05.php#build-time-series)

[Retrieving stored data](ch05.php#retrieve-items)

[Time Series Queries](ch05.php#time-series-queries)

[selectby](ch05.php#d5e314)

[mode](ch05.php#d5e330)

Using AMEE to store data
------------------------

If you have a lot of energy information, or want to keep your own
application as light as possible, you can use AMEE to store your
calculations permanently so that you can retrieve them later. By handing
the database handling requirements to AMEE, you save money on hosting
and processing your own data.

The process for doing this is actually exactly the same as for doing
calculations as described in the previous chapter; when you do a
calculation, you create a Profile Item, which is stored in the AMEE
platform.

More about Profiles
-------------------

So far, we've mostly ignored Profiles. Here, however, they become more
relevant. If you are storing data for many different entities, you can
use multiple profiles to separate that data into silos.

A common use case is to have a separate profile for each user of a web
application, but equally you could have a profile for each office in a
business application, or any number of other things. In general, the
smallest entity in your system will probably correspond to a profile.
You should store the Profile UID generated by AMEE in your application
alongside other data for the entity; there is no way to search AMEE for
profiles that match particular metadata, as all profiles are fully
anonymised.

Naming Profile Items
--------------------

If you create two profile items with the same data item UID, and which
overlap the same time, then AMEEconnect will complain, as it can't form
a single consistent time series from the data (see below). However,
there are cases in which you might want to do this; energy used by two
cars of the same type. In this case, you can provide a name parameter to
identify each set. You can build up multiple datasets in the same
profile category by using different names for each one. A name is not
required, but if you suspect that you will want to store multiple
datasets alongside each other, it is good practise to specify one.

Building Time Series
--------------------

Storing a single profile item is useful, but most data changes over
time, particularly when we are talking about energy use. AMEEconnect
allows you to store time information along with your data, so that you
can build up a series of data points over time.

Three parameters are available to control time information, startDate,
endDate, and duration. By providing these when you create profile items,
you can set the time that the created profile item is valid for. By
default, startDate is "now" and endDate is infinitely far in the future.
If your data is not time-sensitive, then this will be fine. However, if
your data represents usage at a particular time, you can set the values
explicitly. The maximum time resolution of AMEEconnect is 1 minute. If
seconds are specified, they are rounded down. Note that you can't set
endDate and duration at the same time.

All these parameters are specified in standard ISO-8601 format. For
instance, the following would all be valid parameters (when correctly
form-encoded):

~~~~ {.programlisting}
startDate=2009-08-01T14:30:55Z
endDate=2009-08-02T14:30:55-08:00
duration=PT30S
~~~~

Retrieving stored data
----------------------

To retrieve stored data, you can do a GET on the category in which you
have created profiles items. This will return a paged response listing
all the profile items in that category, as well as a total amount of
emissions for all of them. The request is shown below; see [the section
called “List Profile
Items”](apa.php#list-profile-items-reference "List Profile Items") for
the full response details.

These responses can be filtered by time period; see below.

AMEEconnect does not support aggregation across different categories or
profiles. Often the same data could be stored in multiple places using
different methodologies, so in order to avoid double counting, the
aggregation is left to the client who best understands the business
logic involved.

Time Series Queries
-------------------

Once you have built up a time series, you will probably want to retrieve
historical data. Above, we saw that profile categories include a list of
current profile items. This "present time" behaviour can be modified by
providing startDate and endDate query parameters in the GET request,
using the same format as above.

There are a couple of request parameters that control what is returned:

### selectby

  Option          Meaning
  --------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  *unspecified*   Include items which intersects the query window.
  start           Only include items which start during the query window.
  end             Only include items which end during the query window.

### mode

  Option          Meaning
  --------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
  *unspecified*   Get the total emission values for all items.
  prorata         Get only the emissions which took place during the query window.

For instance, if you have a profile item that lasts a week, and request
just one day within that period, if you do not specify mode, you will
still get the emissions for the week. If you specify mode=prorata, you
will get the emissions just during that single day.

  ------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------------------
  [« Perform Calculations](ch04.php)    [Contents](index.php)    [Advanced Options »](ch06.php)
  ------------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------------------


