Advanced Options
----------------

[Units](ch06.php#units)

[Return Units](ch06.php#return-units)

[Authenticated Sessions](ch06.php#authenticated-sessions)

[Paging](ch06.php#paging)

[Interactive Drilldowns](ch06.php#interactive-drilldowns)

Units
-----

AMEEconnect includes built-in support for a wide range of unit
conversions. Most units are SI by default, but if you want to specify
fuel in US gallons instead, you can. Time units can also be changed.
Each parameter in a profile item has associated Unit and PerUnit
parameters which control these. For instance, if you wanted to use the
default units for fuel, you could add a fuel purchase with the following
parameter, which would represent a fuel usage of 100 litres per month.

~~~~ {.programlisting}
volume=100
~~~~

If, however, you are measuring in gallons on a weekly basis, you could
specify the following parameters:

~~~~ {.programlisting}
volume=100&volumeUnit=gal&volumePerUnit=week
~~~~

All unit conversion calculations are automatically handled by
AMEEconnect, giving you the correct results for your application with
the minimum of effort.

The following table lists the most common units supported by AMEE, along
with the symbol that should be used for the POST options.

Mass

symbol

Grams

g

Kilograms

kg

Metric Tons / Tonnes

t

Ounces

oz

Pounds

lb

Tons (UK imperial)

ton\_uk

Tons (US imperial)

ton\_us

Distance

symbol

Metres

m

Kilometres

km

Feet

ft

Yards

yd

Miles

mi

Nautical Miles

nmi

Volume

symbol

Litres

L

Cubic Metres

m³

Fluid Ounces (UK imperial)

oz\_fl\_uk

Fluid Ounces (US imperial)

oz\_fl

Gallons (UK imperial)

gal\_uk or gallon\_uk

Gallons (US imperial)

gal

Energy

symbol

Kilowatt-Hours

kWh

Joules

J

Energy - BTU

symbol

39 °F

BTU\_ThirtyNineF

Mean

BTU\_Mean

IT

BTU\_IT

ISO

BTU\_ISO

59 °F

BTU\_FiftyNineF

60 °F

BTU\_SixtyF

63 °F

BTU\_SixtyThreeF

Thermochemical

BTU\_Thermochemical

Energy - Therm

symbol

39 °F

thm\_ThirtyNineF

Mean

thm\_Mean

IT

thm\_IT

EC

thm\_ec, alias of thm\_IT

ISO

thm\_ISO

59 °F

thm\_FiftyNineF

US

thm\_us, alias of thm\_FiftyNineF

60 °F

thm\_SixtyF

63 °F

thm\_SixtyThreeF

Thermochemical

thm\_Thermochemical

Time

symbol

Second

s

Minute

min

Hour

h

Day

day

Week

week

Month

month

Year

year

### Return Units

Similar to input units, the CO2 emission results generated by AMEE have
default units of kg/year. If you prefer pounds per week, you can specify
some special parameters in your GET requests:

~~~~ {.programlisting}
https://stage.amee.com/profiles/7C7D68C2A7CD/home/energy/quantity?returnUnit=lb&returnPerUnit=week
~~~~

Note that this only affects the default returned amount contained in the
single Amount or TotalAmount tag. The contents of the Amounts tag are
not affected, so if you are dealing with multiple gases, this facility
will not be available. This will be improved in a future version of the
API.

Authenticated Sessions
----------------------

If you do not wish to use HTTP Basic authentication with each request,
you can create an authenticated session. You will need to make a POST
request to https://stage.amee.com/auth, providing your username and
password as form-encoded data in the request body. You also need to
specify which format you want the result in (XML or JSON) using a
standard "Accept" header. The response to this request includes various
pieces of information, but the most important is the authentication
token, which is returned both as a cookie and as a custom header, both
called "authToken".

-   [Example](javascript:;)

.

#### Request

~~~~ {.programlisting}
POST /auth HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/xml (or applicaiton/json)
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
          
~~~~

~~~~ {.programlisting}
username=my_username&password=my_password
          
~~~~

* * * * *

#### Response

~~~~ {.programlisting}
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Set-Cookie: authToken=1KVARbypAjxLGViZ0Cg+UskZEHmqVkhx/PmEvzkPGpnUlH17KQbJ58xfapXiewVVPvG2CtrQNTuawY+KWU4Dxx08570dM2Z0sZAoeijdlucuCOvAyHhi9A==; 
authToken: 1KVARbypAjxLGViZ0Cg+UskZEHmqVkhx/PmEvzkPGpnUlH17KQbJ58xfapXiewVVPvG2CtrQNTuawY+KWU4Dxx08570dM2Z0sZAoeijdlucuCOvAyHhi9A==
Content-Type: application/xml; charset=UTF-8
          
~~~~

.

You should store the authToken value and include it as a cookie in any
subsequent requests. The authToken will expire after two hours, or if
unused for half an hour. Therefore, if you are using authenticated
sessions, your application should always be prepared to re-authorise on
any request if you receive a 401 UNAUTHORIZED response.

-   [Example](javascript:;)

.

#### Request

~~~~ {.programlisting}
GET /data HTTP/1.1
Cookie: authToken=1KVARbypAjxLGViZ0Cg+UskZEHmqVkhx/PmEvzkPGpnUlH17KQbJ58xfapXiewVVPvG2CtrQNTuawY+KWU4Dxx08570dM2Z0sZAoeijdlucuCOvAyHhi9A==
accept:application/xml
          
~~~~

* * * * *

#### Response

~~~~ {.programlisting}
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
          
~~~~

.

Note that this facility is deprecated, and will not be present in
version 3 of AMEEconnect. We highly recommend connecting over HTTPS and
using Basic Authentication instead.

Paging
------

Many resources in AMEE are capable of containing a large number of
sub-resources, for instance profile categories can contain many profile
items. Retrieving them all in one request may be prohibitively
expensive, so for this reason such resources are paged. Details of how
to page through items in AMEE are provided in [the section called
“Paging”](apc.php#paging-reference "Paging").

Interactive Drilldowns
----------------------

Sometimes you want to give your users a choice of which calculation to
perform within a category. For instance, they might need to choose the
model of their car, or how their home is heated. For those situations
when there are too many options to present in a single list, AMEEconnect
provides the facility to perform step-by-step interactive drilldowns.
You make a request to the drill resource, present the user with the
choices, then make another request based on their choice. This gives you
the next set of choices, and so on until the drill is fully specified.

This process is fully documented in [the section called “Look up a Data
Item UID”](apb.php#drilldown-reference "Look up a Data Item UID").

  --------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------------------
  [« Store Data](ch05.php)    [Contents](index.php)    [Profile Reference »](apa.php)
  --------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------------------


